---
title: Introduction
editor: jcrowley
doc_element: 0.1
tags:
  - guide
  - quickstart
published: true
date: 2014-07-20
---

## Ushahidi as Testimony.

"People become the stories they hear and the stories they tell."
&mdash; _Elie Wiesel, Nobel Laureate for Peace_

Ushahidi was born from calamity. When the 2008 Kenyan elections descended into social conflict, a small team of activists and technologists created a platform to allow Kenyans to report incidents of violence in their neighborhoods. By typing their location and short description on their cell phones and texting it to a shortcode (60007), witnesses posted thousands of reports to a shared web site.

The team called this new tool 'ushahidi,' which means _testimony_ in Swahili. Over the weeks after the election, Ushahidi collected thousands of reports, placing each of them on a map on a web site that everyone could access. Over time, these small stories built a bigger picture, enabling Kenyans to collaborate on building a collective story about a shared experience from the contributions of many voices.











From the 2008 Elections to citizen engagement. In Swahili, 'ushahidi' means testimony. During the 2008 Kenyan elections... Ushahidi was first designed as a platform to enable citizens of Kenya to tell their stories, to give testimony. Tell Ushahidi story...

## What is Ushahidi?

Today, Ushahidi might best be described as an organization that builds tools to empower communities. The original tool, Ushahidi SMS platform, has grown. Release v3 is a rethinking of the original idea. Simplified code. Simplified interface. Could even function as a headless API. Start to continued simplification and renewed engagement. How does it relate to other tools, how is it unique? Interface for digital data collection, relation to tech environment?

## Why use Ushahidi and for what purpose?

What do you need to think about first? Ushahidi is more than a tool; it is a set of practices that have emerged around how best to use citizen reports to collect data and analyze it for a particular end. These ends now include evidence gathering for human rights, citizen journalism, health mapping, etc...

---

# References
Method to include blockquotes from other sites with attribution. Title, Author, Link.

## Election info
* [Ushahidi Web Site](http://ushahidi.com)

